[HSEARCH] 6.0.0.Final (#153)
hibernate/in.relation.to: posts/Yoann/2020-12-11-hibernate-search-6-0-0-Final.adoc

link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#getting-started[getting started guide]
included in the reference documentation.

If you want to migrate an application based on Hibernate Search 5,
be aware that Hibernate Search 6 APIs differ significantly from Hibernate Search 5.
We recommend you have a look at
see link:{hsearch-migration-url-prefix}[the migration guide].

== What's new compared to Hibernate Search 5

=== Dependency upgrades

[[orm-version]]
==== Hibernate ORM

Hibernate Search 6 relies on Hibernate ORM 5.4.

Note that only Hibernate ORM 5.4.4.Final or later will work correctly;
5.4.3.Final and earlier will not.

[[lucene-8]]
==== Lucene 8
// Old anchor, kept here to avoid dead links
[[lucene-7]]

The Lucene backend now uses Lucene 8.7.

[[elasticsearch-7]]
==== Elasticsearch 7
// Old anchor, kept here to avoid dead links
[[elasticsearch-6]]

The Elasticsearch backend now works with Elasticsearch 5.6, 6.8 or 7.10.
Support for older versions of Elasticsearch was dropped.

[[api-refresh]]
=== API overhaul

This is perhaps the most important aspect of Hibernate Search 6: most APIs have changed.
We didn't take this decision lightly, and we don't intend to do this again anytime soon:

> at this point, breaking APIs was necessary for Hibernate Search to keep improving.

Reviewer: In my opinion the point in which we decided to brake the API is in the past, so I wouldn't write `this point`. Maybe we could just remove `at this point`.

The primary goal of this overhaul was to abstract away Lucene APIs,

> so that the Elasticsearch backend can be become a first-class citizen,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so that the Elasticsearch backend can become a first-class citizen,
```

implemented without any hacks or unnecessary dependencies.

It goes without saying, but the Lucene backend will remain as important as ever.

> In fact, abstracting away Lucene APIs is good for the Lucene backend, too:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In fact, abstracting away Lucene APIs is good for the Lucene backend too:
```
Not entirely sure but the comma looks weird to me.

where Hibernate Search 5 would have generated a predicate that doesn't match anything,
Hibernate Search 6 will detect the type mismatch and will throw an exception.

More concise::
* Ability to link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate[use lambdas]
for more concise query definition,
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-boolean-lambda[even when queries are complex].
* link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}search-dsl-query-targeting-multiple[Simpler syntax for predicates when targeting multiple types] in a single query:
instantiating multiple `QueryBuilders` is no longer needed,
Hibernate Search takes into account that multiple types are targeted
and automatically checks that targeted fields are compatible across all targeted indexes.

More consistent::
* The API types consistently use the `Search` prefix: no more mixing `FullText` with `Search` or simply no prefix.
* The `SearchQuery` type (previously `FullTextQuery`)
now link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-query-fetching-results[defines its own methods]
instead of extending JPA's `TypeQuery`,
highlighting the fact that it targets an index and not a database, and making it a friendlier API.

> It is still possible to

Reviewer: I would add a conjunction e.g.: `Even if it is still possible ...`, to make the text more readable.

link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}/#search-dsl-query-object[create an adapter that implements JPA's `TypeQuery`].

Backend-agnostic by default, with backend-specific extensions::
* As explained in <<api-refresh>>, the Search DSL no longer exposes Lucene-specific types by default.

> Native Lucene queries can still be used (see below).

Reviewer: I would add a conjunction also here. Maybe we could join the periods. E.g:
` Lucene-specific types by default, but native Lucene queries can still be used`.

* Injection of native predicates
(link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-extensions-lucene-from-lucene-query[`org.apache.lucene.search.Query` for Lucene],
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-extensions-elasticsearch-from-json[JSON for Elasticsearch])
within DSL-created predicates.
This is not new for the Lucene integration, but it is for the Elasticsearch integration.
See link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-extensions[predicate extensions].
* Injection of native link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-sort-extensions[sorts]
and link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-aggregation-extensions[aggregations]
within DSL-created Hibernate Search queries.
* Ability to link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-query-elasticsearch-json[directly manipulate the JSON of Elasticsearch requests/responses].

More features::
* A new link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-id[`id` predicate].
* A new link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-exists[`exists` predicate].
* Ability to link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-common-overriding-analysis[override analyzers on a per-predicate basis].

> * Better for support for multi-valued fields for link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-sort-common-multi-value-mode[sorts],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Better support for multi-valued fields for link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-sort-common-multi-value-mode[sorts],
```

link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-projection-field-multivalued[projections]
and link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-aggregation[aggregations (faceting)].

[[mapping]]
=== Easier mapping

Specialized `@*Field` annotations::
Hibernate Search 6 offers separate `@*Field` annotations for each major field type:
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-directfieldmapping-annotations[`@GenericField`] works in most cases,
but you can access more options (analysis, ...)
with link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-directfieldmapping-annotations-fulltextfield[`@FullTextField`],
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-directfieldmapping-annotations-keywordfield[`@KeywordField`],
...
+
This way, each annotation offers the options that make sense for the selected field types,

> and only those options. No longer will you end up disabling analysis on a numeric field!

Reviewer: I would add a conjunction phrase before the `No longer ...`.
E.g.: `As a consequence no longer will ...`.

Simpler mapping of container types::
* `@*Field` annotations can be applied directly to `List<String>` or `OptionalInt`
in order to index the "contained" elements,
thanks to link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-containerextractor[container extractors].
* For more complex types (e.g. `Map<String, Integer>`),
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#_explicit_container_extraction[the container extractor can be selected explicitly].

More features::
* Ability to define a link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-directfieldmapping-search-analyzer[`searchAnalyzer`],
to analyze search queries differently from indexed text (useful for auto-complete in particular).
* Ability to map scaled numbers (`BigDecimal`/`BigInteger`)
with link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-directfieldmapping-annotations-scalednumberfield[`@ScaledNumberField`].

[[bridge-2.0]]
=== More powerful, backend-agnostic bridges

> The new Bridge APIs are different, but with a lot of improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new Bridge APIs are different and vastly improved.
```
? I don't see why you have a `but`.

Full control on field definitions::
* Bridges can link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-bridge-index-field-type-dsl[declare field types precisely],
allowing in particular to pick an analyzer or to enable aggregation (faceting) on a bridge-declared field.
* Bridges targeting non-String fields are now first-class citizens:
when targeting bridge-declared, non-String fields in the Search DSL,
you will no longer have to bypass bridges (`.ignoreFieldBridge()`) like you had to in Search 5.
* Bridges can link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-bridge-index-field-dsl-dynamic[declare dynamic fields with a precise type]
which the Search DSL will be aware of.

Full control on automatic reindexing::
Bridges can link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-bridge-bridgedelement-dependencies[declare the properties they rely on],
allowing Hibernate Search to reindex less frequently.

Custom bridge annotations::

> Bridges can be applied with link:{hibernateSearchDocUrl}#mapper-orm-custom-annotations[custom annotations],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bridges can be applied with link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-custom-annotations[custom annotations],
```
? And all the other occurrences should be fixed too if it's indeed incorrect.

> allowing clearer mappings, especially when bridges are parameterized;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allowing clearer mappings, especially when bridges are parameterized.
```

* You can opt out of automatic reindexing locally using
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-reindexing-reindexonupdate[`@IndexingDependency(reindexOnUpdate = ...)`].
* You can declare the dependencies of a `@Transient`, indexed property using
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-reindexing-derivedfrom[`@IndexingDependency(derivedFrom = ...)`].

Easy configuration of indexing synchronization::
Some want more performance with asynchronous automatic indexing,
others prefer data safety and immediate visibility of indexed documents with synchronous automatic indexing.
With Hibernate Search 6, this can all be configured
with a link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-indexing-automatic-synchronization[single configuration property].

Smarter change processing::
Hibernate Search 6 is smarter when processing changes on complex entity graphs.
+
When a property changes in an entity that is indexed-embedded in multiple other entities,
Hibernate Search 6 will only traverse associations to entities that are actually
affected by the change, based on `@IndexedEmbedded(includePaths = ...)` and other metadata.

[[schema-management]]
=== More flexible schema management

> Manage the schema on statup::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manage the schema on startup::
```

Just like Hibernate Search 5, Hibernate Search 6 can
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-schema-management-strategy[manage the schema for you on startup].
Or not: if this gets in the way, it can be disabled.

Manage the schema on demand::
Unlike Hibernate Search 5, Hibernate Search 6 offers
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-schema-management-manager[dedicated APIs to trigger schema operations on demand].

Manage the schema when mass indexing::

> The MassIndexer can drop and re-create the schema automatically:

Reviewer: If we use the a camel cased `MassIndexer`, I think we should put it under the apostrophes.

[[runtime-joins]]
=== Runtime joins with nested documents

Hibernate Search 6.0 introduces "nested" link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-indexedembedded-structure[fields]
and link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#search-dsl-predicate-nested[predicates],
similar to the feature with the same name in Elasticsearch.

This means in particular that indexed-embedded entities can be searched much more finely,
for example searching for that one book whose author has a given first name *and* last name.
With the right mapping and the right query,
no longer will Hibernate Search return a book co-authored by "John Smith" and "Jane Doe"
when you were looking for "John Doe"!

For details, see link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-indexedembedded-structure[Structuring embedded elements as nested documents]
in the reference documentation.

[[other]]
=== And more

* Better support for traditional JPA batch processes involving a periodic flush/clear:
Hibernate Search 6 will
link:{hsearch-doc-url-prefix}#mapper-orm-indexing-automatic-concepts-extraction-on-flush[buffer the documents to index upon flush()],

> to avoid the infamous `LazyInitializationException` that Hibernate Search 5 would trigger.

Reviewer: > infamous

maybe this term is too strong...

* Better reporting of errors on bootstrap:

> Hibernate Search and will provide more context for each error,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hibernate Search will provide more context for each error,
```
